Chapter i: Ideas in general, and their origin
第一章：关于观念及其起源

1.
Everyone is conscious to himself that he thinks; and when thinking is going on, the mind is engaged with ideas that it contains.
每个人都意识到自己在思考；而当思考进行时，心灵便在处理其所包含的观念。

So it’s past doubt that men have in their minds various ideas, such as are those expressed by the words ‘whiteness’, ‘hardness’, ‘sweetness’, ‘thinking’, ‘motion’, ‘man’, ‘elephant’, ‘army’, ‘drunkenness’, and others.
因此，毫无疑问，人的心中存在着各种观念，比如用“白”、“硬”、“甜”、“思考”、“运动”、“人”、“象”、“军队”、“醉酒”等词语所表达的那些。

The first question, then, is How does he acquire these ideas?
那么，首要的问题是：人是如何获得这些观念的？

It is widely believed that men have ideas stamped upon their minds in their very first being.
人们普遍认为，人在生命之初，心中就已经印刻了某些观念。

My opposition to this in Book I will probably be received more favourably when I have shown where the understanding can get all its ideas from—an account that I contend will be supported by everyone’s own observation and experience.
当我展示了理智是如何获得其所有观念之后——我主张这一解释将得到每个人的观察和经验的支持——我在第一卷中对此观点的反对可能会更容易被人们接受。

2.
Let us then suppose the mind to have no ideas in it, to be like white paper with nothing written on it.
那么，让我们假设心灵中没有任何观念，就像一张没有任何字迹的白纸。

How then does it come to be written on?
那么，它是如何被写上字迹的呢？

From where does it get that vast store which the busy and boundless imagination of man has painted on it—all the materials of reason and knowledge?
人类那忙碌且无限的想象力在上面描绘出的那巨大的库存——即理智和知识的所有材料——是从哪里得来的呢？

To this I answer, in one word, from experience.
对此我用一句话回答：来自经验。

Our understandings derive all the materials of thinking from observations that we make of external objects that can be perceived through the senses, and of the internal operations of our minds, which we perceive by looking in at ourselves.
我们的理智所获得的所有思考材料，都源于我们的观察：一是对通过感官感知的外部客体的观察，二是对通过反省自身所感知的内心运作的观察。

These two are the fountains of knowledge, from which arise all the ideas we have or can naturally have.
这两者便是知识的泉源，我们所拥有或自然能拥有的所有观念都源于此。

3.
First, our senses when applied to particular perceptible objects convey into the mind many distinct perceptions of things, according to the different ways in which the objects affect them.
首先，当我们的感官作用于特定的可感客体时，根据客体影响感官的不同方式，感官向心灵传递了关于事物的许多不同的感知。

That’s how we come by the ideas we have of yellow, white, heat, cold, soft, hard, bitter, sweet, and all so on—the so-called ‘sensible qualities’.
这就是我们获得黄、白、热、冷、软、硬、苦、甜等观念的方式——即所谓的“感官性质”。

When I say the senses convey these ideas into the mind, I don’t mean this strictly and literally, because I don’t mean to say that an idea actually travels across from the perceived object to the person’s mind.
当我说明感官将这些观念传递进心灵时，我的意思并非严格的字面理解，因为我并不是说一个观念真的从被感知的客体穿过空间进入人的心灵。

Rather I mean that through the senses external objects convey into the mind something that produces there those perceptions.
我的意思是，外部客体通过感官向心灵传递了某种东西，从而在心灵中产生了那些感知（即“观念”）。

This great source of most of the ideas we have I call SENSATION.
这种我们大多数观念的巨大来源，我称之为“感觉”。

4.
Secondly, the other fountain from which experience provides ideas to the understanding is the perception of the operations of our own mind within us.
其次，经验为理智提供观念的另一个泉源，是对我们内部心灵运作的感知。

This yields ideas that couldn’t be had from external things—ones such as the ideas of perception, thinking, doubting, believing, reasoning, knowing, willing, and all the different things that our minds do.
这产生了一些无法从外部事物中获得的观念——例如感知、思考、怀疑、相信、推理、认知、意愿以及我们心灵所做的所有不同活动。

Being conscious of these actions of the mind and observing them in ourselves, our understandings get from them ideas that are as distinct as the ones we get from bodies affecting our senses.
由于我们意识到这些心灵行为并对自己进行观察，我们的理智便从中获得了观念，这些观念与那些由物体影响我们感官所产生的观念一样清晰。

Every man has this source of ideas wholly within himself; and though it is not sense, because it has nothing to do with external objects, it is still very like sense, and might properly enough be called ‘internal sense’.
每个人心中都完全拥有这种观念来源；虽然它不是感官，因为它与外部客体无关，但它仍然非常像感官，可以很恰当地被称为“内部感官”。

But along with calling the other ‘sensation’, I call this REFLECTION, because the ideas it gives us can be had only by a mind reflecting on its own operations within itself.
但在将前者称为“感觉”的同时，我将此称为“反省”，因为它所赋予我们的观念，只能通过心灵反思其自身的内部运作而获得。

By ‘reflection’ then, in the rest of this work, I mean the notice that the mind takes of what it is doing, and how.
那么，在本书余下的部分，“反省”一词是指心灵对它正在做什么以及如何做的注意。

(I am here using ‘operations’ in a broad sense, to cover not only the actions of the mind on its ideas but also passive states that can arise from them, such as is the satisfaction or uneasiness arising from any thought.)
（我在这里是在广义上使用“运作”一词，不仅涵盖心灵对观念的活动，也涵盖由观念产生的被动状态，例如任何思想所引起的满足或不安。）

So that’s my thesis: all our ideas take their beginnings from those two sources—external material things as objects of sensation, and the operations of our own minds as objects of reflection.
所以这就是我的论点：我们所有的观念都起源于这两个来源——作为感觉对象的外部物质事物，以及作为反省对象的心灵自身运作。

5.
When we have taken a full survey of the ideas we get from these sources, and of their various modes, combinations, and relations, we shall find they are our whole stock of ideas; and that we have nothing in our minds that didn’t come in one of these two ways.
当我们全面考察了从这些来源获得的观念，以及它们的各种模式、组合和关系后，我们会发现它们构成了我们全部的观念储备；我们的心中没有任何东西不是通过这两种途径之一进入的。

6.
If you look carefully at the state of a new-born child, you’ll find little reason to think that he is well stocked with ideas that are to be the matter of his future knowledge.
如果你仔细观察一个新生儿的状态，你会发现几乎没有理由认为他已经储备了丰富的观念来作为他未来知识的素材。

He gets ideas gradually; and though the ideas of obvious and familiar qualities imprint themselves before the memory begins to keep a record of when or how, ideas of unusual qualities are different.
他是逐渐获得观念的；虽然明显且熟悉的性质在记忆开始记录何时或如何产生之前就印刻在了脑海中，但非同寻常性质的观念则不同。

Some of them come so late that most people can remember when they first had them.
其中一些观念出现得如此之晚，以至于大多数人都能记得他们第一次产生这些观念的时间。

And if we had reason to, we could arrange for child to be brought up in such a way as to have very few ideas, even ordinary ones, until he had grown to manhood.
如果我们有理由这样做，我们可以安排一个孩子在成长过程中接触极少的观念，甚至是普通的观念，直到他成年。

In actuality children are born into the world surrounded by bodies that perpetually affect them so as to imprint on their minds a variety of ideas: light and colours are busy everywhere, as long as the eyes are open; sounds and some tangible qualities engage the senses appropriate to them, and force an entrance into the mind.
实际上，孩子出生在一个被各种物体环绕的世界里，这些物体不断地影响他们，从而在他们的心灵中印刻下各种观念：只要眼睛睁开，光线和色彩便无处不在；声音和某些触觉性质会吸引相应的感官，并强行进入心灵。

But I think you’ll agree that if a child were kept in a place where he never saw any colour but black and white till he was a man, he would have no ideas of scarlet or green—any more than a person has an idea of the taste of oysters or of pineapples if he has never actually tasted either.
但我认为你会同意，如果一个孩子被关在一个直到成年都只能看到黑白两色的地方，他就不会有绯红色或绿色的观念——就像一个人如果没有亲口尝过生蚝或菠萝，就不会知道它们的味道一样。

7.
How many simple ideas a person has depends for ideas of sensation on what variety there is among the external objects that he perceives, and for ideas of reflection on how much he reflects on the workings of his own mind.
一个人拥有多少简单观念，就“感觉观念”而言，取决于他所感知的外部客体的多样性；就“反省观念”而言，取决于他对自身心灵活动的思考程度。

Someone who contemplates the operations of his mind can’t help having plain and clear ideas of them; he won’t have clear and distinct ideas of all the operations of his mind and everything that happens in them unless he turns his thoughts that way and considers them attentively.
沉思心灵运作的人，不可避免地会对这些运作产生平实而清晰的观念；但除非他将思想转向那一方面并专心致志地考察，否则他不会对心灵的所有运作及其中发生的一切拥有清晰且明确的观念。

This is like how he can't have ideas of all the details of a landscape painting, or of the parts and motions of a clock, if he doesn’t look at it and focus his attention on all the parts of it.
这就像如果他不去看并把注意力集中在风景画的所有部分，或者时钟的零件和运作上，他就无法获得它们的全部细节观念一样。

The picture or clock may be so placed that he encounters them every day, but he’ll have only a confused idea of all the parts they are made up of, until he applies himself with attention to consider each part separately.
画作或时钟可能被放在他每天都能见到的地方，但在他专心分别考察每一个部分之前，他对它们所构成的各个部分只会有一个模糊的印象。

8.
That’s why most children don’t get ideas of the operations of their own minds until quite late, and why some people never acquire any very clear or perfect ideas of most of their mental operations.
这就是为什么大多数孩子直到很晚才获得关于自身心灵运作的观念，也是为什么有些人从未对他们的大多数心理活动获得过任何非常清晰或完美的观念。

Their mental operations are there all the time, like floating visions; but until the understanding turns inward upon itself, reflects on them, and makes them the objects of its own thoughts, they won’t make deep enough impressions to leave in the person’s mind clear, distinct, lasting ideas.
他们的心理活动一直存在，就像漂浮的幻影；但除非理智转向自身内部，对其进行反省，并将其作为自己思考的对象，否则它们就不会留下足够深刻的印象，无法在人的心灵中留下清晰、明确、持久的观念。

Children enter the world surrounded by new things that constantly attract their senses, beckoning to a mind that is eager to notice new things and apt to be delighted with the variety of changing objects.
孩子进入世界时，周围环绕着不断吸引其感官的新事物，这些事物在向一颗渴望关注新鲜事物、易于因千变万化的物体而感到快乐的心灵招手。

So the first years are usually spent in looking outwards at the surroundings; and so people grow up constantly attending to outward sensation, reflecting very little on what happens within them till they come to be of riper years—and some not even then.
因此，最初的几年通常都花在向外观察周围环境上；人们在成长过程中不断关注外部感觉，极少反思内心发生的事情，直到他们到了更有阅历的年纪——有些人甚至终其一生都不曾反思。